 					Ch-06 Static Keyword  

Qn.01   Why do we need static keyword in java. Explain with an example? 

Ans. 1. The static keyword is mainly used for memory management in java. 

2. A static keyword can be applied with variables, blocks, function and class.  
3. The static keyword is a property of a class rather than an instance of a class. 
4. the static keyword is used for a constant variable or a method that is the same for 
every instance of a class.  

Qn.02   What is class loading and how does the java program actually 
execute?  

Ans. 
Qn.03   Can we mark a local variable as static? 

Ans. No, static function in java belongs to whole class in which it is defined, so its 
not possible for a local variable to be static.   
Page | 17 

Qn.04   Why is the static block executed before the main method in java?  

Ans. Because the compiler Stores them in memory at the time of class loading and before 
the object creation.  
Here the compiler executes all the static blocks first, and after 
the finishing the static block execution it invokes the main () method. 
  
Qn.05   Why is a static method also called as a class method? 
 
Ans. A static method is a method that belongs to a class rather than an instance of a class. This 
means you can call a static method with creating an object of the class. 

Static methods are sometimes called class method.  

Qn.06   What is the use of static block in java? 

Ans. 1. These are the blocks which gets executed automatically at the time of loading the 
.class files.  

2. If we want to perform any activity at the time of loading a .class file we have to define 
that activity inside the static block.  
3. We can write any no of static blocks those static blocks will be executed from top to 
bottom.  
4. Normally a static block is used to perform initialization for the static variables.  

Qn.07   Difference between static and instance variable.  
Ans.      
Static variable  
1. These variables are called “class variables”. 
2. These "variables will get memory in the method area.  
3. If the value does not change from object to object, then we need to use static variables. 
4. Inside a static area we can access static variables only. 
5. Static variables are created using static keywords. 
Non-Static Variable  
1. These variables are called “instance variables”. 
2. These variables will get memory in the heap area. 
3. If the value changes from object to object, then we need to use “non-static” variables. 
4. Inside a non-static area, we can access both static and non-static variables. 
5.  Non-static variables are created without using the “static” keyword. 

Qn.08   Difference between static and non-static member.    

Ans. Static members are accessed by their class name which encapsulate them, but 
non-static members are accessed by object reference.  