						Ch-08 Constructor 
Qn.01    What is a constructor? 

Ans. In java, a constructor is a term that describes a line of code used to create an 
instance of a class objects. 
Main objective of the constructor is nothing but 
initialization of objects.  

Qn.02    What is constructor chaining? 

Ans. A class can contain more than one constructor and all these constructors have 
the same name they differ only in the type of argument hence these constructors 
are considered as overloaded constructor / constructor chaining.  

Qn.03    Can we call a subclass constructor from a superclass constructor? 

Ans. No, we can not call a subclass constructor from a superclass constructor. 

Qn.04    What happens if you keep a return type for a constructor? 

Ans. Since constructor can only return the object to class. It’s implicitly done by java 
runtime and we are not supposed to add a return type to it.  
If we add a return type to a constructor, then 
it will become a method of the class. This is the way java runtime distinguish 
between a normal method and a constructor.  

Qn.05    What is no-argument constructor?
 
Ans. The constructor does not accept any parameters is known as no-argument 
Constructor.   

Qn.06 How is a no-argument constructor different form the default 
constructor?  

Ans. One difference between them is that the body of default constructor will always 
empty where we can insert our own code in no-argument constructor.  

Qn.07   When do we need constructor Overloading?  

Ans. If we want to have different ways of initializing an object using a different 
number of parameters. Then we must do constructor overloading when we want 
different definitions of a method based on different parameters.   
 
Qn.08   What is a default constructor explain with an example? 

Ans. The default constructor is automatically created by the compiler if no 
constructor has been defined by the user in the class. 
Ex. If a class has an attribute X with a default value 
of 0. The default constructor would initialize the value of X to 0 for any new object 
from that class.  