					Ch-02 Operators and Loops  
 
Qn.01   What are the Conditional Operators in java? 

Ans. When a condition consists of multiple Boolean expressions, they are used. Use Conditional 
operators to combine two expressions, such as when we wish to print a number only if it is larger 
then 2 and less then 5.   

  Three types of Conditional Operators.  

a. AND Operator (&&) 
b. OR Operator (||) 
c. Ternary Operator (? :)  

Qn.02   What the types of Operators based on the number of Operands?  

Ans. There are 3 types  

1. Unary 
2. Binary 
3. Ternary Operator  

Qn.03   What is the use Switch case in java programming?  

Ans. The Switch case in java executes one statement from multiple ones. Thus, it is like an if-else
if ladder statement. 
 
Qn.04   What are the priority levels of arithmetic Operation in java?  

Ans.    In Order…. 
      1.++, --. Unary-  
      2. *, /, %      
      3. +, - 
      4. Assignment =  
               
Qn.05   What are the Conditional Statements and Use of conditional statement 
in java? 

Ans. Conditional Statement in java are used to make decisions based on certain 
conditions. The most common conditional statement in java are the if-else 
statement, Switch Statement and Ternary Operator.  
           This statement allows the 
program to execute different blocks of code based on specific conditions.   

Qn.06   What is the syntax o if else statement?  

Ans.  

Syntax…
...    
if (condition) {  
statement - 1  
} else { 
} ;  

statement – 2 

Qn.07   What are the 3 types of iterative statements in java? 

Ans. There are 3 types of iterative statements…...  
1. For loop  
2. While loop 
3. do – while loop  

Qn.08   Write the difference between for loop and do-while loop? 

Ans. For loop: for loop is use when we know the number of iterations means where 
the loop will terminate.  
do – while loop: do – while loop is use when we don’t know the numbers of 
interactions means where the loop is terminated.   