						Git and GitHub 
Assignment 01   

Qn.01   What is Git? 

Ans. Git is a popular Version Control System (VCS). It was created by Linus      Torvalds in 2005 and 
had been by maintained by Junio Hamano. 

    	Git is used for  

			a. Tracking code Changes  
			b. Tracking who made changes like History of the files. 
			c. Coding Collaborations. 
 
Qn.02   What do you understand by the term ‘Version Control System’?  

Ans.  It is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time, so that we can recall 
specific version latter.  
  i.e. For every source code change in a file a new version will be created.  
           There are 3 types of VCS  
1. Local Version Control System (LVCS). 
2. Centralized Version Control System (CVCS).  
3. Distributed Version Control System (DVCS).  

Qn.03   What is GitHub? 

Ans. GitHub is a code hosting platform for version control and collaboration. It lets you and others 
work together on projects from anywhere.  

Qn.04   Mention some popular Git hosting Services. 

Ans.     1. GitLab  4. GitHub  
   2. Bitbucket   5. Assembla 
   3. Gitea   6. SourceForge        
             etc.  

Qn.05   Different types of Version Control System? 

Ans. There are two types  
a. Centralized Version Control System.  
b. Distributed Version Control System.  

Qn.06   What benefits come with using Git? 

Ans. Git has workflow, flexibility with Git, teams work together using various Branching, Strategies 
that is not as possible in other Version Control System.  
It is even making better use of Junior Developers by  
using them a save environment to work in.  

Qn.07   What is a Git Repository? 

Ans. A Git repository is a central storage location for managing and tracking changes in files and 
directories. It is a crucial component of the git version control system, which enables collaborative 
development and allows multiple developers to work on a project simultaneously.   
 
Qn.08   How can you initialize a repository in Git?  

Ans. Initializing a new Repository ------ git init    